README.md, before:

# 👨‍🚀 spaceman.nvim 🚧

> Spaceman\[ager\] for your workspaces

Provides a way to a open workspaces given the parent directories or specific workspaces.

- [Installation](#list-of-text-objects)
- [Usage](#configuration)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

And the obligatory usage video:

https://github.com/FireIsGood/spaceman.nvim/assets/109556932/b9bb232e-2a7f-474d-9560-e247d0551772

## Installation

### Dependencies

- [nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim)

### Package Managers

A basic setup to turn your `~/Documents/Projects` folder into a workspace parent and enable the keymaps:

```lua
-- lazy.nvim
{
  "FireIsGood/spaceman.nvim",
  config = function()
    require("spaceman").setup({
      directories = {
        "~/Documents/Projects"
      },
      use_default_keymaps = true,
    })
  end,
}

-- packer
use {
  "FireIsGood/spaceman.nvim",
  config = function ()
    require("spaceman").setup({
      directories = {
        "~/Documents/Projects"
      },
      use_default_keymaps = true,
    })
  end,
}
```

For a full list of options and examples of using specific workspaces, see [Configuration](#configuration) below.

## Usage

By default, only the command is registered. Otherwise, you can enable the default keymap or write your own API calls.

| Command          | Default Keymap | API Call                                   | Description                    |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| `:Spaceman`      | `<leader>wo`   | `require("spaceman").list_workspaces()`    | List workspaces                |
| `:SpacemanCount` | `<leader>wc`   | `require("spaceman").count_workspaces()`   | Count the number of workspaces |
|                  |                | `require("spaceman").open_workspace(path)` | Open a specific workspace      |

## Configuration

> [!NOTE]
> Directory refers to the parent of multiple workspaces. Workspaces refers to specific workspaces

### Defaults

The default configuration is as follows:

```lua
-- default config
require("spaceman").setup({
  directories = {},            -- List of directories
  workspaces = {},             -- List of workspaces in the format { "name", "path" }
  sort_by_recent = true,       -- Whether to sort with recently opened workspaces in front
  use_default_keymaps = false, -- Whether to register keymaps
  rename_function = nil,       -- Function to rename your folders
  hooks = {                    -- Hooks of a single Vim command, a table of vim commands, a Lua function, or nil
    before_move = nil,         -- Before changing directory
    after_move = nil,          -- After changing directory
  },
  telescope_opts = nil,        -- Options to pass to the telescope window
  data_path = vim.fn.stdpath("data") .. "/spaceman_data.json", -- Stores recently used workspaces
})
```

### Basic Setup

Each entry in `directories` is a path to the parent of many workspaces. Each entry in `workspaces` is a specific
workspace with its custom name and the path.

All paths are expanded and normalized, so you can use `~` as short for your home directory.

Since opening the directory only changes directory to it, you will likely want to add hooks to delete buffers and/or set
up sessions.

Basic setup using directories, workspaces, and custom hooks:

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- Workspace parents
  directories = {
    "~/Documents/Programming",
    "~/Documents/Fishing",
    "~/Documents/Whatever_You_Want",
  },

  -- Individual named workspaces
  workspaces = {
    { "Nvim-Data", "~/.local/share/nvim" },
    { "Config", "~/.config/nvim" },
  },

  -- Enable the default keymaps
  use_default_keymaps = true,

  -- Hooks to be run before and after moving
  hooks = {
    -- Vim command list (A single string also works)
    before_move = { "nohlsearch", "silent %bdelete!" },

    -- Function (usually an anonymous function definition)
    after_move = function()
      print("We have arrived.")
    end,
  },
})
```

> [!NOTE]
> Workspaces linking to the same folder will override directories.

<details>
<summary>Further Examples</summary>

### With Sessions.nvim

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  hooks = {
    before_move = { "noh", "SessionsStop", "silent %bdelete!" },
    after_move = { "SessionsLoad" },
  },
})
```

### Using a Custom Rename Function

The custom rename function is run on ALL names, including custom workspace names.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  rename_function = function(name)
    return string.gsub(" " .. name, "%W%l", string.upper):sub(2) -- Name to title case
    -- return string.gsub(name, "[-_]", " ")                     -- Underline and dash to space
    -- return string.gsub(name, "[-%s]", "_")                    -- Space and dash to underline
  end,
})
```

### Disable Sorting

You can disable sorting if you want a truly declarative config with no recent files. If you also don't want to save the
data file at all, you can change the path to `nil`

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  sort_by_recent = false,
  data_path = nil, -- Optional: don't save the data path at all
})
```

### Saving the Data file Elsewhere

The data file tracks timestamps for your recently used folders. If you wanted to share this across machines, you can
change where it is saved.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  data_path = "~/Documents/sync-or-whatever/spaceman_data.json", -- Store in a sync folder
})
```

### Telescope Options

You may set a table of opts, either literally or through preset themes. See [Telescope
Themes](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim#themes) or `:help telescope.setup()` more details on these
tables.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  telescope_opts = require("telescope.themes").get_dropdown({
    prompt_title = "Cool Dropdown",
    results_title = "Items or Something",
    scroll_strategy = "limit",
  }),
})
```

</details>

## Non-goals

There are already many plugins to manage workspace folders based on file patterns, manual additions, or Git repositories. As
such, this project's goal is not to search based on those types of criteria, but specifically the single-depth children
of provided parent folders.

If you wish to have the non-goal features described above, consider these options:

- [project.nvim](https://github.com/ahmedkhalf/project.nvim) manages based on file patterns
- [workspaces.nvim](https://github.com/natecraddock/workspaces.nvim) manages workspaces manually
- [whaler.nvim](https://github.com/salorak/whaler.nvim) looks for git directories

For more plugins in that vein, check out the [Telescope Extensions wiki](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim/wiki/Extensions)

## Contributing

Feel free to make issues or pull requests!

Commit message:

feat: option to use vim-ui adapter

README.md, after:

# 👨‍🚀 spaceman.nvim 🚧

> Spaceman\[ager\] for your workspaces

Provides a way to a open workspaces given the parent directories or specific workspaces.

- [Installation](#list-of-text-objects)
- [Usage](#configuration)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Non-Goals](#non-goals)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

And the obligatory usage video:

https://github.com/FireIsGood/spaceman.nvim/assets/109556932/b9bb232e-2a7f-474d-9560-e247d0551772

## Installation

### Dependencies

- [nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim) if you want to use the Telescope
  adapter

### Package Managers

A basic setup to turn your `~/Documents/Projects` folder into a workspace parent and enable the keymaps:

```lua
-- lazy.nvim
{
  "FireIsGood/spaceman.nvim",
  config = function()
    require("spaceman").setup({
      directories = {
        "~/Documents/Projects"
      },
      use_default_keymaps = true,
    })
  end,
}

-- packer
use {
  "FireIsGood/spaceman.nvim",
  config = function ()
    require("spaceman").setup({
      directories = {
        "~/Documents/Projects"
      },
      use_default_keymaps = true,
    })
  end,
}
```

For a full list of options and examples of using specific workspaces, see [Configuration](#configuration) below.

## Usage

By default, only the command is registered. Otherwise, you can enable the default keymap or write your own API calls.

| Command          | Default Keymap | API Call                                   | Description                    |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| `:Spaceman`      | `<leader>wo`   | `require("spaceman").list_workspaces()`    | List workspaces                |
| `:SpacemanCount` | `<leader>wc`   | `require("spaceman").count_workspaces()`   | Count the number of workspaces |
|                  |                | `require("spaceman").open_workspace(path)` | Open a specific workspace      |

## Configuration

> [!NOTE]
> Directory refers to the parent of multiple workspaces. Workspaces refers to specific workspaces

### Defaults

The default configuration is as follows:

```lua
-- default config
require("spaceman").setup({
  directories = {},            -- List of directories
  workspaces = {},             -- List of workspaces in the format { "name", "path" }
  sort_by_recent = true,       -- Whether to sort with recently opened workspaces in front
  use_default_keymaps = false, -- Whether to register keymaps
  rename_function = nil,       -- Function to rename your folders
  adapter = "telescope",       -- Which adapter to use, either "telescope" or "vim-ui" (for compatibility)
  hooks = {                    -- Hooks of a single Vim command, a table of vim commands, a Lua function, or nil
    before_move = nil,         -- Before changing directory
    after_move = nil,          -- After changing directory
  },
  telescope_opts = nil,        -- Options to pass to the telescope window
  data_path = vim.fn.stdpath("data") .. "/spaceman_data.json", -- Stores recently used workspaces
})
```

### Basic Setup

Each entry in `directories` is a path to the parent of many workspaces. Each entry in `workspaces` is a specific
workspace with its custom name and the path.

All paths are expanded and normalized, so you can use `~` as short for your home directory.

Since opening the directory only changes directory to it, you will likely want to add hooks to delete buffers and/or set
up sessions.

Basic setup using directories, workspaces, and custom hooks:

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- Workspace parents
  directories = {
    "~/Documents/Programming",
    "~/Documents/Fishing",
    "~/Documents/Whatever_You_Want",
  },

  -- Individual named workspaces
  workspaces = {
    { "Nvim-Data", "~/.local/share/nvim" },
    { "Config", "~/.config/nvim" },
  },

  -- Enable the default keymaps
  use_default_keymaps = true,

  -- Hooks to be run before and after moving
  hooks = {
    -- Vim command list (A single string also works)
    before_move = { "nohlsearch", "silent %bdelete!" },

    -- Function (usually an anonymous function definition)
    after_move = function()
      print("We have arrived.")
    end,
  },
})
```

> [!NOTE]
> Workspaces linking to the same folder will override directories.

<details>
<summary>Further Examples</summary>

### With Sessions.nvim

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  hooks = {
    before_move = { "noh", "SessionsStop", "silent %bdelete!" },
    after_move = { "SessionsLoad" },
  },
})
```

### Using a Custom Rename Function

The custom rename function is run on ALL names, including custom workspace names.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  rename_function = function(name)
    return string.gsub(" " .. name, "%W%l", string.upper):sub(2) -- Name to title case
    -- return string.gsub(name, "[-_]", " ")                     -- Underline and dash to space
    -- return string.gsub(name, "[-%s]", "_")                    -- Space and dash to underline
  end,
})
```

### Disable Sorting

You can disable sorting if you want a truly declarative config with no recent files. If you also don't want to save the
data file at all, you can change the path to `nil`

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  sort_by_recent = false,
  data_path = nil, -- Optional: don't save the data path at all
})
```

### Use vim-ui Instead of Telescope

If you don't want to use telescope for any reason, you can explicitly switch to using the vim-ui menu. If you don't have
telescope installed and don't explicitly set the adapter here, you will get a warning every time you list workspaces.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  adapter = "vim-ui",
})
```

### Saving the Data File Elsewhere

The data file tracks timestamps for your recently used folders. If you wanted to share this across machines, you can
change where it is saved.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  data_path = "~/Documents/sync-or-whatever/spaceman_data.json", -- Store in a sync folder
})
```

### Telescope Options

You may set a table of opts, either literally or through preset themes. See [Telescope
Themes](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim#themes) or `:help telescope.setup()` more details on these
tables.

```lua
require("spaceman").setup({
  -- [OTHER SETTINGS]
  telescope_opts = require("telescope.themes").get_dropdown({
    prompt_title = "Cool Dropdown",
    results_title = "Items or Something",
    scroll_strategy = "limit",
  }),
})
```

</details>

## Non-goals

There are already many plugins to manage workspace folders based on file patterns, manual additions, or Git repositories. As
such, this project's goal is not to search based on those types of criteria, but specifically the single-depth children
of provided parent folders.

If you wish to have the non-goal features described above, consider these options:

- [project.nvim](https://github.com/ahmedkhalf/project.nvim) manages based on file patterns
- [workspaces.nvim](https://github.com/natecraddock/workspaces.nvim) manages workspaces manually
- [whaler.nvim](https://github.com/salorak/whaler.nvim) looks for git directories

For more plugins in that vein, check out the [Telescope Extensions wiki](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope.nvim/wiki/Extensions)

## Contributing

Feel free to make issues or pull requests!
